# GATECH

Q. Why do we study data structures such as linked list, binary tree, hash function and others?

Data structure is the foundation of all Operating System (OS). For computing system, it's simple, just compute what is given. However when it comes to an entity of Operating System, it requires all the management, what is the priority in execution, what can be postponed etc. This requires a special kind of operation, which is basically a data structure. For example, in simplest term, a program can recognize which is bigger or smaller between 9 and 5. However, when it comes to a large process, it's not simple as comparing between digits. Whether the process will require large CPU utilization or the process issues lots of I/O tasks. 

To put it simply, in order to make the entire organization or a company more productive and efficient, HR department sorts out all employees into different categories with different kinds of tasks. Some requires critical roles, some are placed in maintenance role. All this is done by an employee's experience, skillset, qualification, etc. The same can be applied in OS as well, when it differentiate between multiple processes whether to allow which process first and which process later in order to maximize the CPU efficiency and hide the latency. Let's say we have a process A and process B. The process A has a high priority than the process B (A > B). So the OS allows the process A to go ahead its execution. In a typical queue, it will look like this. `[A, B]`. Considering the first in, first out (or first come first serve) basis, the OS will initiate the process A. If we implement a priority level into our queue, the queue will remain the same `[A, B]`. So there won't be any difference. But let's say during the process A execution, another process C comes into the system and demands the execution. When the OS checks the priority of the process C, its priority level is higher than the process B. So the queue will look like this `[A, C, B]` from `[A, B]`. So how do we jump the process C in front the process B? That's where the data structure comes into play. How to design the data structure, how to implement it, is there any better data structure that can easily implement what we want. Those are the fundamentals of data structures. 

You wonder why the process C comes into play while we already executing the existing processes A and B? Yes, it's because when we open the laptop, we just don't open one program and let it run. We open multiple programs, sometimes just open a critical program while we're doing other programs. So our choices are always random and we want things to proceed as fast as possible. 
